##

This book was produced in EPUB format by the Internet Archive.

The book pages were scanned and converted to EPUB format automatically. This process relies on optical character recognition, and is somewhat susceptible to errors. The book may not offer the correct reading sequence, and there may be weird characters, non-words, and incorrect guesses at structure. Some page numbers and headers or footers may remain from the scanned page. The process which identifies images might have found stray marks on the page which are not actually images from the book. The hidden page numbering which may be available to your ereader corresponds to the numbered pages in the print edition, but is not an exact match; page numbers will increment at the same rate as the corresponding print edition, but we may have started numbering before the print book's visible page numbers. The Internet Archive is working to improve the scanning process and resulting books, but in the meantime, we hope that this book will be useful to you.

The Internet Archive was founded in 1996 to build an Internet library and to promote universal access to all knowledge. The Archive's purposes include offering permanent access for researchers, historians, scholars, people with disabilities, and the general public to historical collections that exist in digital format. The Internet Archive includes texts, audio, moving images, and software as well as archived web pages, and provides specialized services for information access for the blind and other persons with disabilities.

Created with hocr-to-epub (v.1.0.0)

**The text on this page is estimated to be only 47.50% accurate**

6, 3 gh )

HE best heads the world ever knew were well read and the best heads take the best places. —Hmerson

**The text on this page is estimated to be only 41.71% accurate**

Ne Se Te ee e ! we, + iinet Copyright, 1899, by Notman, Boston

THE HARVARD CLASSICS “DR. ELIOT'S FIVE-FOOT SHELF OF BOOKS’ EDITED BY SeHARLES W, ELIOT P, F. COLLIER & SON 416 WEST 13TH STREET NEW YORK, N. Y, SOLE PUBLISHERS

Copyright 1917 By P. F. Cottier & Son

In this book: Foreword The Art of Reading The Conception of The Harvard Classics Dr. Eliot tells why he undertook the work Reading and Business’ Contents of The Harvard Classics History Biography and Letters Government and Politics Science Education Drama Essays Philosophy and Religion Prose Fiction Voyages and Travel Famous Prefaces Poetry

Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/harvardclassicshOOunse

7 Foreword N the matter of making a life as well as a living, we are told that good books cut a paramount figure. In The Harvard Classics we have at our beck and call a great company of the wisest, the wittiest, and most interesting minds of all ages and every land, among whom is to be found entertainment in endless variety: And not entertainment only; for entertainment is not the end of life, but its sweetener and strengthener toward whatever may be the high goal which we have made and are making our chief concern. Pleasure, therefore, and self-satisfaction —and with both, the delight and advantage of mental growth—lie for those who want them in The Harvard Classics.

What Shall I Read To-Night? O MANY millions of books have been written and so few of them are really worth while. In the Five-Foot Shelf of Books you have the 418 works that have stood the acid test of time. The men whose wisdom and poise other men envy have read and reread these few great works.

The Art of Reading HAMILTON WRIGHT MABIE VERY intelligent traveler who travels with a purpose outlines his route, selects the places of interest which he desires to visit, and careftlly apportions his time. If one is to traverse a certain area of territory in a given period his movements must be guarded by forethought and method. Reading is mental traveling through regions far more various and attractive than any which the longest routes of terrestrial journeyings afford. The tourist annihilates space, the reader destroys both space and time. The world of thought and action is spread out before him, and his greatest difficulty is apt to be that he does not know how to traverse it. He wastes his time in short and unprofitable excursions when he might be taking account of the Antipodes. Many people expend in desultory reading time and effort that, wisely directed, would make them masters of epochs and literatures. The art of reading is to read in such a way that with the utmost economy of time one can secure the richest results. Reading habits are generally formed, as are other habits, unconsciously. One who is just beginning to read, or one who has already read much, can form good reading habits and so acquire the art of reading as easily as any other habits can be formed, and no easier. Attention to a few rules for a reasonable time will result in the unconscious adoption of the rules by the mind which makes them habits and relieves one from any further conscious effort.

The Art of Reading ‘ We cannot all be scholars, because scholarship demands uninterrupted hours and a continuous and absorbing attention, which in most cases the demands of active life make impossible; but anyone who has access to books may become educated in a very liberal sense and without infringing on daily duties if he only knows how to set about it. An element of the first importance is time. Many busy people declare that they have no time for reading ; but they are mistaken. They haveallthe time there is,and some of the world’s busiest men have found that time enough to make themselves accomplished in one or more departments of knowledge. The trouble is not lack of time, but wasteful habits in regard to it. Many persons entertain the notion that one must have regular and definite hours of the day or week set apart for reading in order to accomplish anything valuable. There never was a greater mistake. The busiest life has margins of time which may serve, like the borders of the old missals, to enrich and exalt the commonplaces written between. [ifteen minutes in the morning and as many in the evening devoted faithfully to reading will add appreciably in the course of a few months to one’s store of knowledge. Always have a book at hand, and, whether the opportunity brings you two hours or ten ninutes, use it to the full. An English scientist learned a language in the time his wife kept him waiting for the completion of her evening toilettes ; and at the dinner given to Mr. Froude in this city some years ago Mr. Beecher said that he had read through that author’s brilliant but somewhat lengthy history in the intervals of dinner. Every life has pauses between its activities. The time spent in local travel in street cars and ferries is a golden opportunity if one will only resolutely make the most of it. It is not long spaces of time, but the single purpose that turns every moment to account that makes great 4

The Art of Reading and faithful acquisitions possible to men and women who have other work in life. In order to have a book always at hand, one must decide in advance what he is going to read next. For lack of this. kind of forethought many readers waste time enough to make themselves good literary scholars. They are never quite decided what to get, and generally end with the first volume that comes to hand, which is likely to be something of only passing interest, if not entirely worthless. To sit in a railway car, and by opening the pages of a book to transport oneself in a second into the age of Pericles or the gardens of the Medici at Florence, is the modern version of Aladdin’s lamp and makes one master of treasures more rare and lustrous than those which adorned the palaces of Bagdad. Which Will Succeed? Each has only a few minutes a day to give to reading. One occupies ad/ his few moments with the daily paper; the other is mastering a little at a time the few great books of the ages, a knowledge of which is one of the essentials of true success.

Emerson’s Wish— “In a library we are surrounded by many hundreds of dear friends, but they are imprisoned in these paper and leather boxes, and as they are dressed, like battalions of infantry, in coat and jacket of one cut, by the thousands and ten thousands, ydéur chance of hitting on the right one is to be computed by the arithmetical rule of permutation and combination—not a choice out of three caskets, but out of half a million caskets, all alike. “Would that some charitable soul, after losing a great deal of time among the false books and alighting upon a few true ones, which made him happy and wise, would name those which have been bridges or ships to carry him safely over dark morasses and barren oceans, into the heart of sacred cities, into palaces and temples.” And Its Fulfillment From his lifetime of reading, study, and teaching—forty years of which were spent as President of Harvard University—Dr. Charles W. Eliot has chosen a Five-Foot Shelf containing just the books essential to the Twentieth Century cultivated man. “I believe that the faithful and considerate reading of these books will give any man the essentials of a liberal education.”—Eliot.

The Conception of The Harvard Classics HE eternal question of what constitutes the best reading — what are the all-round “best”? books —is one that has éver been widely discussed. Eliminating entirely all gatherings of literary fragments, there had never been a systematic attempt to collate a well-rounded library of liberal education until Charles W. Eliot aroused the interest of the American public by announcing that he had undertaken to select a ‘“Five-Foot Shelf of Books.” There was hardly a newspaper in the country that did not welcome the news of Dr. Eliot’s intention. The New York ‘Times” voiced public opinion in announcing editorially : “It is safe to say that the entire educational world, and a very considerable proportion of the reading public besides, will await with deep interest the selection of the volumes which go toward making what—for lack of a better name—may be termed “The President Eliot Library of Liberal Education.” Books Enough to Give a Liberal Education The actual conception of the idea and its after development are best summed up in Dr. Eliot’s own words: Some years ago in a speech before an educational gathering I chanced to say that a three-foot shelf would hold good books enough to give a liberal education to anyone who would read them with devotion, even if he could give but fifteen minutes a day to the task. This remark brought me a considerable number of letters, demanding a list of those books. I made several efforts to make the list, but soon discovered that it was a serious undertaking, and that I fad no time for it. Subsequently I saw reason to lengthen the shelf to five feet, but made very little progress toward a definite selection. a

The Conception of The Harvard Classics Early in January last I received a proposal from the firm of P. F. Collier & Son that J undertake to make a selection of fifty volumes, of from four hundred to four hundred and fifty pages each, which would fill my five-foot shelf and be well adapted to accomplish the educational object I had in mind. Official Approval of Harvard University I was invited to assume the entire responsibility of the selection as regards both inclusion and exclusion, and I was to be provided with a competent assistant of my own choice. It was further proposed that the set should be called The Harvara Library or The Harvard Classics. In view of this proposed name for the set, and of the fact that I had been President of Harvard University for nearly forty years, I asked the President and Fellows of Harvard College if they saw any objection, from the point of view of the University, to my accepting the proposal of P. F. Collier & Son. The Board replied unanimously that they saw no objection and that, in their judgment, the undertaking, if well carried out, would prove a useful one from the educational point of view. A Picture of the Progress of the Human Race Never before had a task of this magnitude been undertaken by an educator of the standing of Dr. Eliot. Never before had a question of such unusual public importance received the time and attention that has been applied to the selection of the contents of The Harvard Classics. | The sentiment which guided Dr. Eliot in his work is one which every reader might as well take as his guide: “My aim was not to select the best fifty, or best hundred books in the world, but to give in twenty-one thousand pages or thereabouts a picture of the progress of the human race within historical times, so far as that progress can be depicted through books.” The Stream of the World’s Thought The work of sselection alone required nearly twelve months. The question of the exclusion or inclusion of every item was most carefully considered from every possible point of view; so that the reader may be sure that every8

The Conception of The Harvard Classics thing he reads in his five-foot shelf is included for some specific reason. Furthermore, it makes a literary whole, the component parts of which bear some relation to one another. This means that, having read such a well-roundedout selection, the reader has gained a comprehensive knowl-' edge “of the stream of the world’s thought,” rather than the confused and contradictory ideas often received from indiscriminate reading. ‘in t2 MEDAL IS PRESENTED | he) TO DR. C. W. ELIOT|* n| : of d; The first gold medal to be awarded by|of al ne American Academy of Fine Arts and| yj e a,| Letters for ‘distinction in literature, art] ay « and music, has been presented to Dr. St - Charles W. Eliot, president emeritus of t ;Harvard University, at a meeting of the|§ N ‘academy held in the Chemists’ Club, No.|A €-is2 East Forty-first street. sa S| The medal, which was voted to Dr./in Eliot last November and which was deelsigned by James Earl Fraser, was pre-|jn ‘sented by Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler, de : president of Columbia University, who presided. ate r-| In accepting the medal Dr. Eliot said:— “It became possible for me as president|&? :of Harvard to promote the progress of|ce hj American letters and American arts, andj ar this has been one of the principal objects! oy of my life. To-day’s event is one of’ the pe a] | 8teatest sources of delight that can come jto an old man. 1 want to thank the], og [2eademy deeply for having honored me.” Jv s!

Illustration from the Folklore and Fable volume of The Harvard Classics “It is,” says Dr. Eliot of Harvard, “precisely this encounter with the mental states of other generations which enlarges the outlook and sympathies of the cultivated man and persuades him of the upward tendency of the human race.”

Dr. Eliot Tells Why He Undertook the Work HAVE undertaken to select from the best literature of | the world a Five-Foot Shelf of Books, to be published by P. F. Collier & Son, under the title of “The Harvard Classics.” The selection is intended exclusively for Englishspeaking’ people. It is my belief that the faithful and considerate reading of these, books, with such rereadings and memorizings as individual taste may prescribe, will give any man the essentials of a liberal education, even if he can devote to them but fifteen minutes a,day. Harvard University Sanctions Title It was further proposed that the set be called The Harvard Library or The Harvard Classics. In view of this proposed name for the set, and of the fact that I had been president of Harvard University for nearly forty years, I asked the president and fellows of Harvard College if they saw any objection, from the point of view of the university, to my accepting the proposal of P. F. Collier & Son. The board replied unanimously that they saw no objection, and that, in their judgment, the undertaking, if well carried out, would prove a useful one from the educational point of view. Dr. Eliot’s Aim My aim was not to select the best fifty, or best hundred, books in the world, but to give, in twenty-one thousand It

Dr. Eliot tells why he undertook the work pages or thereabouts, a picture of the progress of the human race within historical times, so far as that progress can be depicted in books. Liberal Education Defined Liberal education accomplishes two objects. It produces a liberal frame of mind, and it makes the studious and reflective recipient acquainted with the stream of the world’s thought and feeling, and with the infinitely varied products of the human imagination. It was my hope and belief that fifty volumes might accomplish this result for any intelligent, ambitious, and persistent reader, whether his early opportunities for education had been large or small. Such was the educational purpose with which I undertook to edit The Harvard Classics, and I believe that a similar educational purpose actuated the publishers. Useful Extension of His Educational Work I regard the undertaking as a useful extension’ of my educational work, and I cherish the hope that, when the work is finished, the educated public will so regard it. If our work proves to have been well done, the use of the title “The Harvard Classics” will be justified. | ust Fifteen Minutes at Bedtime In only those few minutes a day it is possible for you to get the knowledge of literature, the broad culture, that every University strives to give. This is no idle promise: “‘I believe that the faithful and considerate reading of The Harvard Classics will give any man the essentials of a liberal education, even if he can devote to them but fifteen - minutes a day’’—says Dr. Eliot. ae 2 es Twentieth-Century Idea of a Cultivated Man Within the limits of fifty volumes, containing about 22,000 pages, I was to provide the means of obtaining I2

8 Dr. Eliot tells why he undertook the work such a knowledge of ancient and modern literature as seems essential to the twentieth-centurv idea of a cultivated man. The best acquisition of a cultivated man is a liberal frame of mind or way of thinking; but there must be added to that possession acquaintance with the prodigious store of recorded discoveries, experiences, and reflections which humanity in its intermittent and irregular progress from barbarism to civilization has acquired and laid up. A Cultivated Man Enlarges His Outlook and Sympathies The sentiments and opinions these authors express are frequently not acceptable to present-day readers, who have to be often saying to themselves: “This is not true, or not correct, or not in accordance with our beliefs.” It is, however, precisely this encounter with the mental states of other generations which enlarges the outlook and sympathies of the cultivated man, and persuades him of the upward tendency of the human race. , Poetry from Homer to Tennyson The poetry contained in The Harvard Classics, from Homer to Tennyson, will by itself give any appreciative reader a vivid conception of the permanent, eleméntal sentiments and passions of mankind, and of the gradually developed ethical means of 13 diein the firstalcove: Emerson said: ‘* There are 850.000 volumes in the Imperial Library at Paris, Jf a man were to read in dustriously from dawn to dark for sixty years, he would die in the first alcove.”* The foolish man wastes all his few hours with the merely ephemeral books which the solid judgment of men has already rejected. The wise man welcomes the opportunity to be gulded by Dr. Eliot on booke, as he would welcome the advice of any great anthority and specialist on i law, or medioclne, or finance.

¢ Dr. Eliot tells why he undertook the work purifying those sentiments and controlling those passions. “High Thoughts and Beautiful Imagery” In order to make the best use of The Harvard Classics it will be desirable for the younger reader to reread those volumes or passages which he finds most interesting, and to commit to memory many of the pieces of poetry which stir or uphift him. It is a source of exquisite and enduring delight to have one’s mind stored with many melodious expressions of high thoughts and beautiful imagery. Chief End in View The main function of the collection should be to develop and foster in many thousands of people a taste for serious reading of the highest quality, outside of The Harvard Classics as well as within them. Cooperation of Harvard University It would have been impossible to perform the task satisfactorily if the treasures of the general library and of the department libraries of Harvard University had not -been at our disposal. The range of the topics in the series was so wide, and the number of languages in which the desired books were originally written so great, that the advice of specialists, each in some portion of the field, had frequently to be sought. We obtained much valuable advice of this sort from scholarly friends and neighbors. CaaS 14

The Apotheosis of Homer If you are tired of the world of to-day, take down this volume from the Five-Foot Shelf and “hear like thunder on a western beach the surge and thunder of the ‘Odyssey.’ ” The “Odyssey” is a masterpiece of rapid narrative. The buoyant, flowing verse carries the reader forward with a glorious energy.

“The Titanic had gone down,” said the chief editorial writer of a great Chicago daily, “and I was sitting at my desk wondering what I should write that would drive ‘the awful meaning of that disaster home to the hearts of my readers. “Mechanically I reached out for the dictionary and running my eyes over its pages, stopped at the word ‘pity’. There was a definition, to be sure, but only a bloodless onc. No thrill of feeling’ warmed me as I read it; it was chilled, cold-cut, scientific. I tossed the book aside and turned to the encyclopedia. There was ‘pity’ again, but it was only the ‘pity’ of the dictionary, amplified, but still uninspired. “Asa last resort I reached to the shelf above my desk and took down volume fifty of The Harvard Classics and looked for ‘pity’ there and found it to my eager surprise. Here was Bacon’s word on ‘pity’; and Blake’s; and here was what Burke had said; and Hobbes and Pascal. Onc by one I ran the references down in the other volumes, reading no merely fragmentary quotations but the real throbbing thought of the great men of all times in its original context, the source and meaning and nature of ‘pity’, and when I had finished I knew what I was going to say. I sat down then and wrote the greatest editorial of my career.” 10

“*The smooth, well-read man whose superiority of mind enables him to mold to his purpose the men around him.” | Reading and Business E the hurly-burly of modern life there is little time for reading and that litle dissipates itself more often than not in a desultory haphazard dipping here and there into the uncharted sea of books. A lack of guidance rather than a lack of desire has kept many from the.treasures that are to be found between the covers of the right books. Another thing. Ours has been and is yet to some extent a qnew country. Its opportunities have been ‘so many that ability in the rough was sufficient to make good. The need of the keener perceptions, the wider initiative that good books yield had not yet been felt. Men who had hardlglimpsed between the covers of a book in their whole lives became captains of industry. _ But the day of untutored success in business is passing. The lanlettered man is having less and less chance for the best places. The rough diamond who molded raw new-country conditions with inborn shrewdness is giving way to the 17

**The text on this page is estimated to be only 43.52% accurate**

_ 2 el | ay s) ° (= = z i} > Zz wy foe] <3) rs) ° g a = b n [ay = EG ) a b a > P Ww & a QO Zz < a fe

Reading and Business smooth, well-read man whose superiority of mind enables him to mold to his purpose the men around him. In this matter of the reading that is already helping forward those whose foresight bade them start it before now— competent counsel takes the first place in importance if we are to avoid waste of time and money. When we want legal advice, we consult the best lawyer; if we have a bad appendix to be cut out, we spare no trouble in searching out the best surgeon that can be found to do the carving ; similarly when we want to know how we may best equip the mind on which we completely depend for success and a livelihood, do we not want the best advice and the services of the most eminent counsel available? The answer, of course, is that we do. The tests by which an eminent lawyer or a great surgeon is known are familiar. There are almost countless examples of both. But can you name offhand even five men whose word on books and reading might be accepted by the nation? Perhaps there are not even five. Yet there is one man whose training, experience, and position have fitted him beyond all others to direct the reading of those ambitious people who see the splendid opportunity for mental expansion afforded by his guidance. Dr. Eliot of Harvard is the man. But let us not wander from the point of what this organized reading is to do for us, this reading that will help toward the broadness of vision, the fertility of resource demanded by latter-day business. Dr. Eliot supplies perhaps the best definition when he asserts his belief that the faithful and considerate reading of the books he has selected will give any man “the essentials of a liberal education, even if he can devote to them but fifteen minutes a day.” 19

Reading and Business “Liberal education accomplishes two objects,” he goes on tosay. “It produces a liberal frameof mind and it makes the studious and reflective recipient acquainted with the stream of the world’s thought and feeling, and with the infinitely varied products of the human imagination.” Take Cellini’s Autobiography as an illustration: Cellini exceeds in vividness and picturesqueness even the riotous time in which he lived. His almost unbelievable dealings with kings and princes, his love affairs, his street fights with his rivals—of all these he tells with a frankness that takes your breath away. And back of it all you see the glitter and glare, the licentiousness and violence of the Middle Ages. “It is,’ says Dr. Eliot, “precisely this encounter with the mental states of other generations which enlarges the outlook and sympathies of the cultivated man and persuades him of the Upyaa tendency of the human race.” Cellini’s Autobiography is Weoweagreat deal to Dr. Eliot, we busy people, for giving us in this WAST ELESS library the benefit of his seventy years of reading—for making it possible for us, without reading much, to be still well read. only one of the four hundred and eighteen titles in The Harvard Classies, Drwilaee Tive-Foot Shelf of Books. Thus to take out ot eaen age the Histories, or Essays, or Plays, or Biographies, or Poeins, or Books of Science, Philosophy, Education, Travel or Religion that record like photographs the spirit and life of that age—to unite these great and ever-living books in , 2

Reading and Business such a way that they tell the story of human progress from the beginning—that, to put it all in a nutshell, is what Dr. Eliot has done in The Harvard Classics. No one so surely stands as the first representative of scholarly intelligence in America as he who has been for forty years president of Harvard University. Through his effort has now . been given to the world in this Five-Foot Shelf of Books the crystallization of his lifetime of leadership in education. The Harvard Classics may be and probably are just the books you have wished for. Certainly they represent a weaith of opportunity for tnose who look into the future and as far as possible predetermine success by preparing adequately for it. Master of human destinies am I! (sings Ingalls of opportunity) Fame, love, and fortune on my footsteps wait. I knock unbidden once at every gate! If sleeping, wake—if feasting, rise before I turn away. It is the hour of fate, And they who follow me reach every state Mortals desire, and conquer every foe Save death; but those who doub! or hesitate, — = It’s a big economizer of money and space—this Five-Foot Shelf. Every great thinker has in one Condemned to failure, penury, or two characteristic | and woe, works covered his main Seek me in vain and uselessly idea—given us in his basic implore, thought. Here you get vi Egatter: not, and I return no these really great a thoughts of the world’s None of us is willing to masters; here you can pass up even a possibility of turn to the best writings opportunity, but on the other of any one of them without having to burden hand none of us has time to : serra ee F your shelves with the pyaste in aM ess chasing o complete works of all. will-o’-the-wisps. 2i

Reading and Business All is not gold that glitters, and everything so called is not merely for that reason an opportunity. To judge with safety—in other words, not to let pass the opportunity, yet not to be misled by an unessential— requires merely a careful weighing of the facts. ‘Tf you should find in The Harvard Classics a wealth of opportunity, it would surely more than justify this particular “knock unbidden at your gate.”

The Contents of The Harvard Classics Already a hundred thousand busy people are finding the joy of mental relaxation and stimulus in a few pleasant moments a day spent with these worth-while books History Biography azd Letters Government azd Politics S¢ience Education Drama ery Philosophy azd Religion Prose Fiction Voyages and Travel Ramone Prefaces Poetry 23

**The text on this page is estimated to be only 39.26% accurate**

SJESSD] PAVAADEL OY f, JO PLLNIOL PADSSLOAY 24} HUL]VAISNTT a{tepoos, “op -y Ag supsuryd 24% wosg AODAYD dO PILLVA AHL LV NIWAMOd HSITONA FHL LSNIVOV SLHOINN HONGYA AHL JO JOYVHO FHL

History ISTORY alone, of all modes of thought, places the I reader above his author. While the historian more or less diligently plods along his own narrow path, perhaps the one-millionth part of all history, every avenue opens wide to the imagination of those who read him. To them history may mean anything that concerns man and that has a past; not politics only, but art and science and music have had their birth and growth; not institutions only, but legends and chronicles and all the masterpieces of literature reflect the clash of nations and the tragedies of great men. And it is just because the reader is merely a reader that the full joy of history is open to him. He wears no fetters, so that even were he bent on mastering the constitutional documents of the United States he could turn aside with a calm conscience to listen to the echoes of dying Roland’s horn in the gorge of Roncesvaux or to stand by -Cnut watching the North Sea tide as it lapped the old Dane’s feet. Modern readers demand not merely a record of “the dates of wars and deaths of kings,” but an intimate picture of the life of our ancestors. Such portraiture is best obtained from contemporary sources—from letter writers like Pliny, biographers like Plutarch, and chroniclers like Froissart and Holinshed. In The Harvard Classics: Saint Augustine Rousseau Francis Bacon Plutarch John Stuart Mill Adam Smith Marcus Aurelius Benjamin Franklin Herodotus 25

A FEW minutes a day of £ X pleasurable reading — a book for each evening eorresponding to your mood—and at the end of the year you will have a wider appreciation of literature, and art, and poetry, and scienee, and philosophy, and diseovery, than you eould possibly obtain in a lifetime of ordinary haphazard reading. Neither time nor money is the proper word with which to picture The Harvard Classies. The real scl fsatisfaction, the delight of mental growth. words are plceasurc, The owner of the Five-Foot Shelf has at his beck and eall a great eompany of the wisest, the wittiest and the most interesting minds of all ages and every land, among is to be found entertainment tn endless variety. whom And not cntertainment only; for entertainment is not the end of hfe, but its and strengthcner. sweetener To develop our talents for good, to build up eharaeter, to fit ourselves, like the eutwater of a ship, to cleave whatever seas of experience Tate may steer us into, to set ourselves a high, far goal and eonseiously, through storm or shine, to seek that goal, is the real concern of life. ; always On this quest The Harvard Classics show the way by example. For inspiration, for entcrtainment, or perhaps on the other hand in moments of tedtum or depression, these books eome to our reseue. They are a constant souree of cnjoyment, and enduring delight.

Thus to take out of each age the Histories, Essays, or Plays, or Biographies, or Poems, or Books of Science, Philosophy, Education, Travel, or Religion that record like photographs the spirit and life of that age—to unite these great and ever-living books in such a way that they tell the story of human progress from the beginning-—that, to put or Only 20 of the 50 volumes shown here it all in a nutshell, is what Dr. Eliot has done in The Harvard Classics. “T believe,” says Dr. Eliot, “that the faithful and considerate reading of these books will give any man the essentials of a liberal education, even if he can devote to them but fifteen minutes a day.” Pleasure, self-satisfaction, entertainment, and at the same time the delight of mental srowth—these are the ideas behind THE HARVARD CLASSICS. In all the world there is no other such gsrouping of the few imperishable writings which picture the progress of civilization.

History In The Harvard Classics—Continued Cicero John Woolman Tacitus Pliny the Younger Edmund Burke _ Plutarch Izaak Walton Benvenuto Cellini Froissart _ ; Thomas Carlyle : = Samuel Johnson eeveneee Holinshed Machiavelli Jas. Russell Lowell Sir Walter Raleigh Sir Thomas More Daniel Defoe Voltaire John Milton E. A. Freeman John Knox History and its allied subjects are also covered in The Harvard-Classics from the critical and interpretative point of view, and through the more famous biographies. Through Plutarch’s “Lives,” Walton’s “Lives” of Donne and Herbert, the autobiographies of Franklin, Mill, and Benvenuto Cellini, John Woolman’'s “Journal,” the letters of Pliny and Cicero we gather that intimate, close, personal touch with mankind that cannot be acquired from a history that simply record facts. Are you interested in American history? You know, of course, that Christopher Columbus and his men were not the first Europeans to land on the shores of America. You have heard more or less vaguely about the hardy Norsemen who ventured across the stormy north Atlantic in craft no bigger than a modern lifeboat centuries before Columbus’s voyages. But have you read the actual story of these voyages in the quaint words of the ancient “Saga of Eric the Red.” Do you know how the adventurous Biarni, blown out of his course while sailing from Iceland to Greenland, caught the first glimpse of the mainland of America but did not land, and how Lief, the son of Eric, stirred by Biarni’s tales, first sailed forth and set foot on the New World’s shores? As fascinating as any fiction are these stories of the early Norse voyages and settlements, and their fights with the ‘Skrellings,” as they called the 28

History Indians. There is a real human-interest story in the tale of Snorri, the first white child born in America, and how the shadow of an Indian squaw falling across his cradle gave the first warning of an attempted massacre. Here is a vivid little word picture of how Thorfinn Karlsefni and his men spent a winter in the New World, and how the Indians, for the first time perhaps, got the short end of their dealings with the white men: “The Skrellings put down their bundles and loosed them, and offered their wares for barter, and were especially anxious to exchange these for weapons; but Karlsefni forbade his men to sell their weapons, and, taking counsel with himself, he bade the women carry out milk to the Skrellings, which they no sooner saw than they wanted to buy it, and nothing else. Now the outcome of the Skrellings’ trading was that they carried their wares away in their stomachs, while they left their packs and_ peltries behind with Karlsefni and his companions.” The ancient chronicler was evidently not altogether without a sense of humor.

Biography and Letters —\, UR modern love of realism is indisputable. We want ( facts, actualities, human documents. To read the letters of Pliny or Cicero is to know the daily life and thoughts of a Roman gentleman two thousand years ago. In the autobiographies of Franklin and Cellini, and in the ‘Lives’ of Plutarch, Walton, or Johnson, we may walk side by side with worthies of other ages in stimulating and charming friendship. Saint Augustine Izaak Walton Benjamin Franklin Plutarch Samuel Johnson Thomas Carlyle Marcus Aurelius John Stuart Mill R. L. Stevenson Pliny the Younger John Woolman Benvenuto Cellini Cicero Idmund Burke Printing Pressatwhich Franklin worked in Watt's Printing Office, London, tn 1725 Books that Have Influenced All Literature From the period of the revival of classical hterature in Europe down to now, Plutarch’s writings have done more than those of any other single author to famuharize us with the greatest men and the greatest events of the ancient world. His “Lives” have been called “the food of great souls,” because of the enormous influence which, through Montaigne and 30

Biosraphy and Letters Shakespeare, they have exercised on modern literature They belong to the small category of the world’s books which are read’ by all educated men, not merely consulted by scholars. A Wonderful Book At the age of fifty-eight Benvenuto Cellini, goldsmith, sculptor, designer, enameler, and a man of violence and pleasure, shaved his head and retired to a monastery to write his autobiography. Two years later, the work completed, and himself tired of the change of life, he emerged once more and plunged into-his old rioting. He mirrors forth the fiery passions of the time with amazing candor and verisimilitude. The period is the Renaissance, and he expresses himself strongly on the social, political, and church motives which actuated the parties among which he associated. He wielded his pen as his chisel. The whole book is a vivid picture of Italy of the Renaissance, and is as much a work of art as his statues of the Nymph or Perseus, or the wonderful specimens of his art as a goldsmith. An Inexhaustible Treasure House The letters of Cicero and Pliny are intimate pictures of Roman society written by prominent statesmen to their friends. We derive from Pliny not a few of our distinctest impressions of the public and private life of the upper class in the first century. 31

**The text on this page is estimated to be only 21.92% accurate**

bsaivpuing *w “xy sapavyy (q Sururo'd YL MOLy SJONACNAIdSANE AO NOLEVUVIOIM FHL ONINDIS

Government and Politics y N a nation based on free institutions, that stakes ‘its I present prosperity and future happiness on a belief in democracy, a widespread understanding of the rights and obligations of government and the sources of prosperity ‘can scarcely be overvalued. Machiavelli J. J. Rousseau Francis Bacon Sir Thomas More Edmund Burke Adam Smith John Milton Jas. Russell Lowell John. Stuart Mill Daniel Defoe “Bacon alone excepted,’ says Buckle, “Burke was the greatest political thinker who has ever devoted himself to the practice of English politics.” “The writer of a prose illumined as with fire; enthusiastic and yet supremely logical; fearless and yet absolutely obedient to law and order; eloquent and yet restrained; stirred by every popular movement and yet suggestive and philosophical. More completely than any man he showed, in style no less perfectly than in spirit and in sympathy, all that was most typical of the best genius of his age— its ‘restraint, its philosophy, its obedience to order and to law and its gift to literary instinct—-as removed from the exaggeration and pedantry of what had gone before, as from the vulgar platitude and superficial complacency of what was to follow.”’ —HeEnry Craik, Introduction, “English Prose.” The Bible of Political Economy Adam Smith’s “Wealth of Nations” is the one work on political and social economy that every man owes it to himself to read. In this day of agitation over trusts, the influence of government, the value of money, the prices of necessities, the ownership of land, the man who has not read the “Wealth of Nations” is hardly qualified to sisal or even think wisely on these vital subjects. 33

Science N the realm of science the mind of man is busily engaged, te never before, discovering or applying new laws that are destined eventually to modify the life of every human being. The age of Pericles was the time when the fine arts were. developed in their highest perfection. The Middle Ages may be called preeminently the age of faith; the Twentieth Century will probably be known as the age of science. The work of Helmholtz, Faraday, and Lord Kelvin in physics; of Darwin and Huxley in biology; of Jenner, Holmes, and Lister in medicine, has put us in possession of immense new dominions of mind. In The Harvard Classics : Francis Bacon Sir Isaac Newton Charles Darwin ‘* Books are never asleep. Teordareelvin If investigating you interHippocrates rogate them, they conceal nothing; if you mistake them they never grumble; if you are ignorant they cannot laugh at you.”’ —Lincoln Helmholtz Sir Joseph Lister a Tt. Et Huxley Sir A. Geikie Michael Faraday Edward Jenner - William Harvey Ambroise Paré ‘*Books will speak plain when counsellors flatter. Voltaire sel O. W. Holmes Therefore it is good to be Simon Mracenian: / conversant in them, esCopernicus pecially the books of such as themselves have been actors on the stage.’’ —Bacon * The world of science is well represented in the Five-lFoot Shelf by master works upon 34

The best of locks is useless without a key. OU might have every one of the 418 books contained in Dr. Eliot's Five-Foot Shelf, but they would be only ten per cent efficient without their key—Volume 50—the one book that gives the set its practical value to the business or professional man—that gives him instant access to any author, any period, any thought or subject even remotely touched upon. A bookseller offered a short time ago to duplicate The Harvard Classics for a friend of his, but he found it involved the purchase of over 300 volumes at a minimum cost of $1.50 per volume, and he found that he would then have a conglomeration without arrangement or sequence, without introductions, explanatory notes or indexes—a useless mass of good literature, in many cases of garbled or abridged text. In The Harvard Classics only the most authoritative texts are used. In some instances it was necessary to borrow the originals of priceless value from such libraries as the British Museum, the Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris, the Boston Public Library, and the late Mr. Morgan’s collection. In a word, Dr. Eliot’s Five-Foot Shelf of Books is a necessary and valuable adjunct to the most extensive collection of books—it is the practical working section of any library. 35

Science the three great subjects, Chemistry, Physics, and Astronomy. A careful study of the papers here collected will widen any reader’s knowledge wonderfully in the fundamental points of which they treat. “Lord Kelvin occupied for a long time a unique and cosmopolitan position as the universally venerated head of the physical science of the age. He will be known to future ages, possibly even more widely,.as a main pioneer and creator in the all - embracing science of energy, the greatest physical generalization of the last century.” Faraday was one of the most brilliant experimentalists that science has ever known, and to him credit must be given for much that electricity has accomplished. The achievements of Newcomb were in the borderland between theory and practice. where an enormous body of observed data has been utilized by an army of computers under his direction and guidance in determining the fundamental constants of astronomy. 37 A letter we are proud of: “Los Angeles, Calif., Nov. 5, 1911. P.F. COLLIER & SON, 416 West 13th Street, New York City, Dear Sirs: In writing my appreciation of The Harvard Classics, I must explain to you first, this note comes from alaborer —a mere grocer’s clerk, and so must bea very humble estimate. In my vagrant reading I have seen so many references to these Classics that my imagination became fpred as to this world I knew almost nothing of. came to have a dread lest I should be forced through this brief life and never have the chance to explore these Classics. SolI answered the very first advertisement of the Five-Foot Shelf. feeling my chance had come. You may be assured I have not been disappointed. I can only hint to you the joy of reading through these books, the Odyssey, which I read first, and Montaigne and Emerson and all I have read so far. I did not put these in my library—they are my library. T can sincerely thank all concerned in putting these books in my way. Yours truly, Frep West.” TI did not put these in mylibrary—they ARE my library

Science Archibald Geikie was a dis“Most everyone covets a tinguished geologist. His studies library. Tothese The Har- : = vard Classics come as a in inorganic geology show a boon—the best and enough. ‘oye Rather mother ces keen appreciation of natural dren enjoy these books.The 3rocess Harvard Classics are the I = : ie : long-sort-for, found-at-last Ferdinand Helmholtz’s — rewith me.”-ARTHUR W. 1 : hee 1 : Hickman, Buffalo, N. Y. searches 1n physics Nave given him authority to speak for all time. Interesting as humanitarians as well as authors, the works of these scientists cover a highly important field of letters. In the Labratories of Great Scientists The men who have fought and conquered the forces of nature describe to you in simple, straightforward language the results of their vears of endless study and experiment. The discoveries that have changed our whole conception Rchort Hmesaec teen physician gave away his entire library of 15,000 volumes and bought The Harvard Classics to replace them. Not. as he said, that he did not already have in his library most of the works included in the set, but because the Five-Foot Shelf contained all the works really essential to the Twentieth Century cultivated man and the 76.000 word index enabled him to locate at a moment’s notice any subject, any passage, any author he might require, whereas in his own library he might have to wade through scores of volumes to find the references-he wanted. of physical science and the art of healing are here described. Harvey tells you how he discovered the circulation of the blood. Jenner leads you _through the long trials that led to the discovery of vaccination. You stand at Faraday's side watching his experiments with a candle. In your own study you have the peculiar joy of performing them after him. 38

The Harvard Classics provide the general reader with a great storehouse of standard worksin all the main departments of intellectual activity, and, with the introductions, notes, Suides to reading, and exhaustive indexes, may thus claim to constitute a reading course unparalleled in comprehensiveness and authority. Education N all profitable thinking about modern education one central fact is stated or assumed—the fact that education has become a public enterprise. To think of it as a matter mainly of private interest, to discuss it chiefly in terms of personal development, is to ignore the achieved conditions of civilized life and the clear trend of progress. The spread of public schools 1s but the obvious outward sign of a growing conviction concerning all educational endeavor. That conviction was long ago proclaimed and has now become a guide to action——the conviction that the community has a vital stake in the education of every child 3¢ e

Education Education is a common concern, not merely because there are many children to be educated, but because there can be no significant outcome in the education of any child which is not of importance to him not. only, but also to others, immediately to many, more remotely to all. It is interesting to see what works on education seem of most importance to one who is himself an acknowledged master of the subject. Particularly significant is the presence in The Harvard Classics of great writers who were deemed revolutionary in their own day—radicals like Milton, Lessing, Mill, Channing, Huxley, and Carlyle—while the more conservative authorities like Newman are not overlooked. John Milton John Stuart Mill Channing Lessing Daniel Defoe Cardinal Newman John Locke T. H. Huxley John Ruskin Schiller Thomas Carlyle Montaigne HE HARVARD CLASSICS include 418 complete selected works of 300 authors chosen by Dr. Eliot with the advice of over 50 members of the Harvard Faculty. Dr. Eliot’s ideas regarding certain systematic methods have been carried out to assist the reader in gaining “the essentials of a liberal education, even if he can devote but fifteen minutes a day to the Five-Foot Shelf of Books.” By means of an index volume, including 76,000 fact entrices and cross-references, with the supplemental reading courses, the reader has the wise counsels of Dr. Eliot and his staff of assistants, who map out University Extension Courses in every tield of the world’s literature. In addition, the numerous introductions, written at Dr. Eliot’s request by William Allan Neilson, Ph. D., Professor of English at Harvard, present in concise form those facts about authors and their works which are absolutely necessary to the reader. The introductions and special notes alone, scattered through the work, occupy about 300 pages. There are also numerous footnotes for ready reference. 40

Footnotes Every page of the 21,000 pages has been carefully gone over, and explanations wherever necessary appear at the bottom of the page, thus: ASA printing-house is always called a chapel by the workmen, the origin of which appears to have been that printing was first carried onin England in an ancient chapel converted into a printing-house, and the title has been preserved by tradition The bien venu among the printers answers to the terms entrance and footing among mechanics; thus a journeyman, on entering a printing-house, was accustomed to pay one or more gallons of beer for the good of the chapel: this custom was falling into disuse thirty years ago; it is very properly rejected entirely in the United States.”—W. T. F. Introductions Concise and instructive introductions precede the works of the various authors. This feature doubles the value of the books to any thoughtful reader. Fragment from Introductory Note Francis Bacon, son of Sir Nicholas Bacon, Lord Keeper of the Great Seal to Queen Elizabeth, was born in London on January 22, 1561. He entered Trinity College, Cambridge, at the age of twelve, and in 1576 he interrupted the law studies he had begun in that year to go to France in the train of the English Ambassador, Sir Amyas Paulet. Reading Courses The seeker of knowledge has the wise counsels of Dr. Eliot and his assistants, who have laid out complete reading courses on a wide range of subjects. The student is not only referred to the books to be read in their proper sequence, but in every case the particular pages of each work are mentioned. An Outline of One of the Reading Courses The History of Civilization Race and Language Germanic Peoples in PrimAncient Egypt itive Times The East in Patriarchal Times Ireland in Primitive Times Ancient Greece: (legendary) The Early Christian Church Ancient Greece: (historic) The Mohammedan East Ancient Rome: (republican) The Middle Ages Ancient Rome: (imperial)’ The Renaissance America Modern Europe 41

Drama ‘Tf you have poison TO} FILE Iwill drinki.” (ing bear) Shaken and crumpled by the treason of his older daughters, who had accepted all his property and then heartlessly turned him out, he suspected even the taithiul Cordelia on evil designs. Perhaps you have read the -ereatstraredy entire; it is one of the immortal plays included in The Harvard Classics. Rare 1s the human being, immature or mature, who has never felt an impulse to pretend he is some one or something else. The human being who has never felt pleasure in secing such a pretending is rarer still, Back through the ages of barbarism and civilization, in all tongues, we find this instinctive pleasure in the imitative action that is the very essence of all drama. The instinct to impersonate produces the actor; the desire to provide pleasure by impersonations produces the playwright; the desire to provide this pleasure with adequate characterization and dialogue memorable in itself produces dramatic literature. ‘Though dramatic literature has been sporadic, dramatic entertainment by imitative action has ae

Drama been going steadily on since we first hear of it in connection with the Bacchic festivals of early Greece; and the dramatic instinct has been uninterruptedly alive since man’s creation. The Drama Christopher Marlowe Robert Browning Corneille William Shakespeare Aéschylus Racine Ben Jonson Sophocles Moliére Thomas Dekker Euripides Calderon Beaumont and Fletcher Aristophanes ~ Sheridan John Webster Lessing Oliver Goldsmith Philip Massinger Schiller Lord Byron John Dryden Goethe Percy Bysshe Shelley The drama is literature expressing itself in action; hence dramatic compositions surpass all others in vigor and intensity. The fact that the Greek dramas teach moral lessons accounts for their popularity then and now just as the drama of to-day must deal with the more serious side of human nature if it is to receive more than passing notice. From A‘schylus to Browning In The Harvard Classics are 32 great dramas—an exposition of the dramatic art from the days of A¥schylus : HAVE examined the selection of “Harvard Classics,’ chosen from the greatest literature of the world by President Eliot. 7 believe that every book contatned rn the series ts of high permanent value in the history of the world, as representing the noblest thoughts which have been cast intc form, Davip STARR JORDAN, President of Stanferd University, 43

Drama and Sophocles to the comparatively modern Browning. While the theatre, considered from the point of view of a spectacular entertainment, is continually undergoing changes: every man has the privilege of reading and enjoying the drama in its very highest development without attending a play. As a matter of fact, one cannot fully appreciate the legitimate stage of to-day without an acquaintance with the classics drama. See the World’s Greatest Plays If you are fond of the play, there are a hundred evenings of delight for you in the Five-Foot Shelf. In your own library you have performed before you the world’s greatest dramas. You see the Greek theatre and in it the nine great dramas of the ancient masters. You have only to reach out your hand to bring the best that) Prangemna. produced—the dramas that have stirred the enthusiasm of all Germany—or to live for an idle hour in Spain. The master minds who have made English drama brilliant are at your command. Giants of Literature The Greek tragedies—examples of the classical drama at its highest stage of perfection—are here in the works of the mighty triad, A‘schylus, Sophocles, and Euripides, who marvelously excelled in the representation of human passion. “These books are the greatest investment I know, and what an insignificant investment for such Treasures of enjoyment and mental growth!’’ 44

Live with the world’s Greatest Men The world’s greatest men stand ready to take you into their confidence. You can live with them day by day, through their adventures and achievements. You can watch Cellini— wonderful combination of artist and knave—in his dealings with princes and pontiffs, his love affairs, and his duels. You can read the letters of Pliny the Younger, in which he asks whether he shall destroy the “sect called Christians,” and those describing the destruction of Pompeii. You can stand with Cicero in the Roman Senate while he denounces Catiline. You can see Franklin hanging out the lantern in front of his house, the first street light in America. You can live with the greatest men in the intimate personal concerns of their daily existence, There isin all literature no greater pleasure than this. Cicero Denouncing Catiline—Cicero’s Letters The letters of Cicero and Pliny are intimate pictures of Roman society written by prominent statesmen to their friends. We derive from Pliny not a few of our distinctest impressions of the public and private life of the upper class in the first century.

This is Marie Antoinette Riding to Her Death Hers is History’s most tragic story. Have you ever read Burke’s "Reflections on the Revolution in France”’? It is one of the few really great essays—one of the works of the forty-five great essayists worthy to be included in the Five-Foot Shelf of Books.

Essays O one can turn over the pages of The Harvard Classics without realizing how much of the most delightful writing of the last three hundred years has taken the form of the essay. No literary form is more flexible than this, and no form except lyric poetry has touched upon a wider variety of topics. The essayists are those delightful informal philosophers who discourse genially upon life, who exhort without preaching, instruct without pedantry, and moralize without offense. They are among the most brilliant and winning of all the craft. They may have the shrewd wisdom of Bacon and Montaigne, the smiling good humor of Lamb and Stevenson, the high seriousness of Milton and Newman, the caustic penetration of Voltaire, the insight of Arnold and SainteBeuve, the eloquence of Ruskin and Macaulay, the erudition of Renan, the fierce conviction of Carlyle, or the serene _ confidence of Emerson. Montaigne John Dryden Thos. De Quincey Francis Bacon Abraham Cowley T. B.-Macaulay R. W. Emerson Sir Philip Sidney W. M. Thackeray Thomas Carlyle Edmund Burke Cicero John Milton Voltaire Sainte-Beuve Ernest Renan Lessing Schiller Mazzini H. A. Taine Samuel Johnson Ben Jonson Joseph Addison Sir R. Steele Jonathan Swift Daniel Defoe David Hume Sydney Smith S. T. Coleridge William Hazlitt Leigh Hunt Charles Lamb Percy B. Shelley 47 Cardinal Newman Matthew Arnold Edgar Allan Poe Jas. R. Lowell H. D. Thoreau T. H. Huxley Walter Bagehot FE. A. Freeman R. L. Stevenson John Ruskin W. E. Channing John Stuart Mill

Essays Forty-five Great Essayists Dr. Eliot has selected for the Five-Foot Shelf of Books the works of forty-five great essayists. Every man and woman, whether engaged in business, a profession, or in private life, realizes the importance of being able to express ideas in words. The authors of these essays are recognized as the masters of expression. There is no one feature of The Harvard Classies from which the reader will derive as much pleasure and benefit as from the volumes of essays. The Noblest Minds The essay is the realm wherein he who writes is king. It is the resort alike of philosopher and free-lanee, of hostile critic and candid friend. It is the abode of freedom, and its horizon 1s wide as the human intellect. The noblest minds and the brightest intellects have fashioned and employed this literary form, and from this array of genius Dr. Eliot has selected the very flower of the essays, and given us the best from every land. “God is great, God ts great Thereis no other GodhutGod”’ It is the Muezzin—the call of the Mohammedan to prayer. At its sound, two hundred million men and women bow themselves toward Mecea. How much do you really know about any religion but your own? Do you know what ftw great religious Anasterpicees are really worth reading? 48

Philosophy and Religion O class of writers has done greater service to the DN than that to which Plato and Descartes and Kant belong. They were, to quote what Matthew Arnold said of Emerson, “friends of those who would live in the Spirit.” e Plato Thomas Carlyle Martin Luther Cicero David Hume Thomas a Kempis Marcus Aurelius Edmund Burke Thomas Hobbes Epictetus George Berkeley John Calvin Descartes Immanuel Kant John Bunyan Blaise Pascal Lessing William Penn Voltaire John Locke Sir Thomas Browne J. J. Rousseau Schiller Saint Augustiné Francis Bacon Emerson Documents from the Sacred Books of Judaism Christianity Buddhism Brahmanism Confucianism Mohammedanism Famous Hymns Philosophy Philosophy has been defined as a devotion to the pursuit of the truth. The Stoics considered it to be the endeavor to obtain excellence in knowledge. In Plato, philosophy came to mean knowledge of eternal reality. The Epicureans regarded the philosopher as a man who pursued happiness in the manner suggested by reason. 49

Philosophy and Religion Three main epochs commonly divide the history of European philosophy. The first is the Ancient or Greek. This begins from the earliest formulations of philosophic conceptions among the Tonian philosophers and continues to the Christian Ira. The second, that of Medieval philosophy or scholasticism. It owed its rise to the theoretical speculations of the early Church fathers, usually educated in Greek thought. This philosophy was characteristic of Catholic Christianity. The third period is known as that of modern philosophy. It commonly dates from the Renaissance and more particularly from the advocacy of empirical methods of investigation by Bacon and of appeal to immediate reason or intuition by Descartes. Religion The religious field in literature stands alone, both for purity of style and loftiness of purpose. Simplicity is the It gives emphasis to the views expressed. The Harvard Classics do not alone include many treasures of rekeynote. “I am glad to say that -the volumes of The Harvard Classics canfirm all my best anticipations. I congratulate you on the scheme which makes it possible to place in the private libraries of the land this vast world of literature.”’ Bisuor Joun H.VINcENT of the Chautauqua Assembly ligious literature, but present parts of the sacred works of the principal religions, such as the Bible, the Talmud, and the Koran. Books that Never Die The one bond of unity in all the sacred books is the desire for the uplift of those beheving in them. Diversity may exist in the method of achievement, but the spirit of helpfulness is there. 50

Prose Fiction ALORY’S “Morte d’Arthur’” may be called the Epic M of Chivalry, and “Paradise Lost” the Epic of Puritanism. “Don Quixote” is a portrait of the whole Spanish nation, and Manzoni accomplished in “I Promessi Sposi” a like task for Italy. All of Norse heroism is gathered in the “Volsunga Saga,” and@eeiems tabian Nights” unlocked for us the doors of Oriental literature. Prose Fiction Cervantes A. Manzoni H. C. Andersen Jacob Grimm Wilhelm Grimm John Bunyan Malory Arabian Nights ZEsop Volsunga Saga The masterpieces collected in the Five-Foot Shelf are representative of what is best and most enduring in the world’s classic fiction. All civilizations and_ literatures have been laid under contribution out of the treasures of east and west, of north and 51 A Home Without | Books! | “We form judgments of men from little things about their houses, of which the owner perhaps never thinks. If on visiting the dwelling of a man of slender means we find that he contents himself with cheap carpets and very plain furniture in order that he may purchase books, he rises at once in our esteem. Books are the windows through which the soul looks out. A home without books is like a room without windows, No man has a right to bring up his children without surrounding them with books. It is a wrong to his family. He cheats them!” —Henry Ward Beecher.

Prose Fiction south. The choicest gems have been selected, each secure in universal interest and appeal. The Harvard Classics include a varied collection of folklore and fair tales. This particular branch of literature grows In importance every year. There are several thousand volumes on this subject in Harvard University Ahi eae Library. The reader has the Not a soldier discharged his farewell shot opportunity to contrast the flowery, extravagant language of the Orient as illustrated in the tales of the Arabian Nights (Stanley Lane-Poole translation), of which there is an entire volume, with the simple, yet wonderfully picturesque words of Hans Christian Andersen, 7A“sop, and the brothers Grimm. “Nota drum was heard, not afuneral note, Oter the grave whereour herowe buried.” Teachings of Universal Experience The fables attributed to the mythical AZsop are distinctly Eastern in their origin, and are the common heritage of the human race, “Their teachings are the teachings of universal experience, and therefore appeal irresistibly to the consciousness of everyone.” —Pror. H. Tuurston PEck. What the unknown compilers of the “Arabian Nights” did for Eastern lore the gifted Grimms accomplished for Teutonic letters. The Grimms collected the household tales of Germany and enshrined them in their “Marchen.” “In a single generation they became one of the popular books of the world, translated into every civilized tongue.” | . —B.W. WEL Ls, in Grimm’s “Fairy Tales.” é 52

Voyages and Travel For to admire and for to see. For to behold this world so wide. A Hindu Temple ie is probable that from the very earliest times the spirit of these familiar lines has been a potent factor in human history. One might be led, because of the marked development of curiosity in monkeys and apes, to suppose that, even before the complete development of the 58

**The text on this page is estimated to be only 29.70% accurate**

SIUSSDID PALQeDEZ af JO awinjor [7241 Puv seTvCo4 ayy SUYAISHTLT ‘OD °C “MordurysPAl (442770 14 ups0r4s0D ays us uDwIpIag *p cy Ag Juyusred ays wos LdASF -LNAISNV—TIOW GHANSVS FHI AO NOISSADONd << ee

Voyages and Travel human type had been attained, our precursors were tempted to explore beyond their customary haunts. Be that as it may, it seems certain that the first spread of the human race over the face of the globe must have been preceded by more or less conscious exploration and travel. As population grew and began to press upon the food supply and available hunting grounds, and the need for expansion and emigration was recognized, the relative availability and attractiveness of the country in different directions must have been investigated, and movement have taken. place toward the most favorable. This would, of course, not hold true where movement was due to war or the pressure of conquest, but much of this earliest movement of peoples must have been largely voluntary. Travel has thus in these primitive scouts and explorers its earliest exponents, and the history of travel is seen to be as old as the race. Freedom and Adventure A love of freedom and a spirit of adventure have been one of the mainsprings of Anglo-Saxon civilization. Herodotus was the first traveler who carried a notebook, and the Greeks had a colonizing and inquiring strain much like our own. The great voyagers of the globe were those intrepid sailors, Columbus and Cabot, Raleigh and Drake and Sir Humphrey Gilbert, who put a cable round the earth and began to squeeze it to the comfortable dimensions of-a habitable world. Herodotus Sebastian Cabot Sir H. Gilbert Tacitus Amerigo Vespucci Charles Darwin R. H. Dana, Jr. Sir W. Rateigh Abroise Paré C. Columbus Sir F. Drake R. W. Emerson Thrilling Interest There is literature, knowledge, and thrilling interest in those Voyages and Travel which The Harvard Classics Present to the reader. 55

AWOUTD AG ONILNIVd FHL YALAV IITx SINOT ANY ATIMANYOD

Famous Prefaces HE art of writing prefaces may be almost called a Slgemeatt, his voliime is believed to be the only one of memorable prefaces in the English language, and therefore unique. The preface used to be a heart-toheart talk from the author, an essay explaining his work, and often revealed him in a most engaging aspect. William Caxton Francis Bacon W. Wordsworth Edmund Spenser Heminge and Condell Lord Berners John Calvin John Dryden Victor Hugo N. Copernicus Henry Fielding Sir Isaac Newton John Knox Samuel Johnson Goethe a A Unique Volume The art of writing prefaces has been called by some a “lost art.”- It no longer obtains in a majority of the books, but is confined mainly to editions of those writers whose works have stood the test of time. Of its importance Disraeli wrote in his “Literary Miscellanies’: “It argues a deficiency in taste to turn over an elaborate preface unread; for it is the attar of the author’s roses.” L’Estrange goes beyond this and urges “that a man had as good go to court without a cravat as appear in print without a preface.”

**The text on this page is estimated to be only 33.78% accurate**

a4aEssng worsvsy hg dussurvd ays wos ANV10U Fd NOSNVHO

Poetry HE human heart has ever dreamed of a fairer world than the one it knows. No man, however, dark his spirit, however, cramped his senses, 1s quite without the yearning after wider horizons and a purer air. Ina happy moment earth seems to hold for all the promise of larger things. The moment passes; and the world closes in again, actual, bare, unyielding, as before. Yet among men there are some endowed with vision, an insight more pene‘trating and more sustained. To their liberated spirit the world unfolds a farther prospect. Earth clothes itself for ‘them in radiant vesture, mute forms are speaking presences, the riddle of life resolves itself into a meaning. To them it is granted to arrest the moment of illumination, otherwise so fleeting; and, gifted further with a shaping power, they are able to re-create the moment in enduring forms. The men of vision are the seers and prophets; the shapers of the revelation, re-creating it, are the artists and the poets. The Soul of Literature Poetry is the very soul of literature; it emrbodies the ideals and noblest aspirations of every civilized race. The quintessence of the world’s poetry is presented in The Harvard Classics; an Arcadian banquet is spread before every lover of verse and melody. The genius of Greece and Rome, of Paganism and Christendom, is concentrated in this epoch-making series. No such collection of lyrics _has ever been brought into a single work. The Five-Foot Shelf: of Books contains an Anthology of English Verse, representing the work of over 150 authors. A glance at the authors assures the reader of the rare merit of this Anthology or “gathering of the flowers.” Without doubt, it will become the standard Anthology in every library, both public and private. 59

The Index Volume “*The index Volume ss a marvel of excellence, and by it one may easily trace the best thonehts of the wisest oe ; men on all top UH human interest running through the ages, "' / Evans of the Chattan a law School A Triumph of Service Over fifty thousand dollars and a year of expert work were spent on the Index Volume of the Five-Foot Shelf. It is the only volume of its kind in existence. It contains 76,000 references and gives instant access to the things most worth while on a wide range of subjects. A Busy Man’s Friend To the man who wants information for an address, a paper, an advertisement or an editorial, this index renders a service that cannot be computed in terms of dollars and cents. Long days of search would not bring to hand the wealth of material that can be obtained in a few minutes through this source. A Priceless Volume In addition to the General Index, this volume contains a complete index of first lines of all the worth-while poems and songs in the English Language. It also contains a complete chronological index. It may justly be said to perform for the average man the functions of a private secretary. As Dr. Eliot says, “It gives immediate access to any author or any subject, or indeed to any passage to which the enquirer has a good clue.” A Glimpse of the Index Volume Trade, advantages of, x, 22-3; Balance of (sce Porttics, Essay on, Emerson's, v, 249-261. Balance of 'P.); division of aber iiuited by > ; iN, by B . fuciiities of, 24-5; Emerson on the ways of, Penunice sy by Bune yt a80 ¥, 47-4; Kenins bu, 193-4; Goldamith on evils Politica, Burke on seience of, xxiv, 209-10, of, x, 523, 532; ‘gow erument interference Channing on, xxvill, $29-30; corruption in, with, xxv, 303-11; hore and forelen, x, 349- nnder property “yatens, xxxvi, 178; friend50; fiutuan propensity to, 19-20; Locke on ship in, Ix, 22-4, 30-1; Hanilton on tutoterearning a, xxxvil, 185-00; necennity of x, ance {n, xilil, 214; Hobbes on selence of, 29; Penn on ways of, |, 406 (185-6); tyrauny xxxiv, 376; Hume on science of, xxxvii, of, ¥, 416; “the vena porta of wealth,” dil, oe 379, 444; Lowell on selence of, xxviii, 107; Voltaire on, xxxiv, 94; wholesale, three 452; Mill on eclence of, xxv, 103-6; Milton kinda of, x, 310; Woolman on, {, 188, 204 and on study of, 11, 2545 reading course in, 1, Note, 206 (see also Commerce). 48-51; Thoreau on, xxvill, 413. -taxe h Trades, equality of, the requisites to, x, 121- Follstexcs, Smithiqh yxmpzes1 180-30) 16; exclusive, profits and wages in, 65, 66; Poliio, Asinius, orator, ix, 214 note 3; in BeomminetA lvdevferenece WAL *equedlty Aftiew. Wor, ai, Olt; jee, wa, eee of, 126-62 Cesar, xxxif, 102.

ALL that mankind has done, thought, gained or been is lying in magic preservation in pages of books.— Carlyle

L 30

**The text on this page is estimated to be only 34.55% accurate**

StIOyS, . EP NS a Roy | Aa Fits, A A | nS é IX: | —_ Oop Gotan AG